>> Steve Kinney: With that let's actually
play with them now that we've got
like the Tor locked into our heads.
So a few tasting notes which is
I will kind of guide you towards
where to get your Hugging Face token.
But before that let's do
the housekeeping of the day.
Is everything that we're gonna talk
about is in one of these Google Colab
notebooks which is, yeah,
if you ever use a Jupyter notebook or
Python notebook,
you have seen something like this before.
So we'll kind of work through some
of those so we can see some code and
tweak some code and mess around with some
code and you can make your own copies of
these, do whatever you want with them,
so on and so forth.
But you will probably not immediately but
it makes sense to do it now.
Probably need some kind of hugging
face token at some point or another.
So let's talk about that.
So with that we can just
go to huggingface.co, and
it gives a whole bunch of
really interesting stuff here.
There are data sets of
all sorts of wild stuff.
I was bored looking at it last night and
there's just a bunch of really fun
things in here and we will see
when we get to fine tuning that.
You could probably find some
interesting data sets and
make some curious things along the way.
They also have models which we will
be using the kind of the small,
easy to download, definitely run
the free tier Colab ones but
you can pull in open source
models that are ginormous and
be able to pull down and effectively
if you've got the video card and
the RAM for it and the space on
your computer, pull in models that
are not going to make Claude Opus
blush but are kind of impressive for
something that you just downloaded and
are running on your machine as well.
But the thing that we care about
today is going into our account and
going down to access tokens and
creating a new token, right?
We're not gonna push anything up today.
So really you could get away
with just a read token.
If you think that you, you know, like the
responsible thing to tell you is you know,
least access principle, get the smallest
token you can get away with, so on and
so forth.
I'm not gonna tell you do
whatever you want, right?
If you think you're gonna wanna
push up some of your models.
Cause one thing you can do is
when we fine tune a model,
you could theoretically it's like
the whole idea of like git and forking and
stuff like that, you can pull down a model
you can fine tune it based on a data set.
Whether it's a data set you pulled out
from Hugging Face or one that you maybe
have some corpus of your own logs or
something along those lines.
And then you can push up
your own model as well.
You do need the write access
to push up to hugging face.
So you decide what you wanna do there.
You can get away with solely a read token.
And then once you have that token, which
I already have, and I don't feel like
broadcasting a brand new token to all y',
all, you can go into this first notebook.
So if you go here pipeline basics and
you can go this little key,
that key means secrets.
If you hover over it,
it says the word secrets.
You can go in there and
you can add your secret.
You don't actually need
to even do any of this.
Like if the library needs it,
like a lot of the hugging face SDKs for
various things will seek to go looking for
this environment variable.
So it does need to be named HF_TOKEN,
right?
And you can pop it in there and then you
can basically decide if a notebook does or
does not have access to it, right?
In this case I do.
But you pop that in there and that should
be basically if I've done my job well,
which unclear.
It's like one of those things of all
plans are good until you face the enemy.
Or as Mike Tyson put it, everyone has
a plan until they get punched in the face.
So ideally that should be all
of the setup that you need.
But we'll find out together if that's
not true and we'll deal with it.
The other piece that I alluded to earlier
mostly again that was in the slide, so
I didn't forget to mention it now, is if
you do need to change the runtime type,
you don't have as many options as I do.
Unless you want to open your wallet,
which then you will have
as many options as I do.
Because the only reason I got
those options is cause I paid.
You should have the CPU and this T4 GPU.
TPU for those keeping track at
home is a Tensor processing unit,
which is I think something Google makes.
But we don't need those today.
We need for some cases a GPU,
for some a CPU.
I'm gonna stick with the GPUs today,
mostly because no one wants to
see my entire thing be slow.
So if at any given point, and
if you wanted to write R or Julia instead,
those are options.
I'm not going to do those options.
And if you've never used
a Jupyter notebook before.
That's okay, too, because as I begin to
kind of show you some of these, I will,
like, take you on a little tour, right?
They are really, they're really cool.
Now, let's do the immature
part of the show first.
I'll show this to you now and
I guarantee you will all do it,
because I only turned
this off this morning.
Go into settings.
You got a bunch of settings in here.
Whether or not you want Gemini
to help you with things,
you can actually hook it up to GitHub.
So you can either pull in notebooks or
push them out to GitHub.
Miscellaneous is where the magic is.
In Miscellaneous,
you have really two important settings
I actually don't know how to see.
If you check multiple of these boxes,
you have your power level,
where you can choose no power,
some power, or many power.
This one I would recommend caution with.
Let's pick that for a moment, and
then you can engage in either Corgi mode,
kitty mode, or Crab mode.
Despite how much time I've been spending
in Google Collab later, it didn't
occur lately, it did not occur to me that
I could turn more than one of these on.
I thought it was a binary choice.
I have been rocking kitty mode again up
until 10 minutes before I left today.
But I will show you what both of these do.
And you hit Save.
And now you go down into your notebook and
let's say we wanna find a given section,
right?
So you got some markdown in here.
And I can say, as you can see,
it is both shaking and
shooting out various explosions.
And that is the power mode.
You see, I got a combo down there
from the typing, at some point,
I expected some cats to be
walking around the top.
There they are.
So I'm gonna turn that off because
it's incredibly distracting.
But be very clear.
I keep power mode off.
I keep the kitties on, right?
And there are some important downsides
that I should make you aware of.
If you are working and your,
you know, friends, family, partner,
spouse, whoever walks in and
you're trying to convince them that you're
doing real serious work,
it will undermine that, all right?
At one point, preparing for this,
I was rendering images of Mu Dang
the Pygmy Hippo whilst having cats
walking across the top on a Saturday,
convincing my wife that I was doing work.
I think she believed me, but I think there
was some hesitation in there as well.
You can turn those settings on,
you cannot turn those settings on.
Some other tasting notes as you can see,
effectively,
all jupyter notebook is is pieces of
code intermixed with pieces of markdown,
which is basically my love
language to begin with.
They do run in sequential order.
Now you can hit something like Run all,
which will run the first code block
followed by the second code block.
You can also choose to just
run a given code block.
The one thing that I will warn you,
because it will bite you at some point
today, is if you get really into it and
you forget to run the code block
where the variable is declared,
it will not be in memory, but
you can run the first one and
then it's loaded into memory in the
runtime and then you can run one later.
And if you don't change anything in
the first one, you can change stuff.
It's actually a really great way to work.
You can also, if you use VS code or
cursor, something like that,
Python notebooks will
open in there as well.
You can literally use
this in VS code as well.
The only reason we're not
doing that is again, GPUs.
You need to auth separately to do that.
Or can you just open it?
You can just open it.
You can go over to file Download,
download, download it.
The only thing is, occasionally I use,
there's a library in Colab
called Google Colab.
The only feature I use is Output clear and
that won't work,
but there's a different
Python version as well.
As you can see, this library is exclusive
to the Google Colab notebooks, but
there is literally one in the IPython
library that will also clear the output.
But if there's a big PIP install
that's a version of npm,
I don't want to see that in the notebook
and have to scroll past it,
especially as I'm zoomed
in a little bit as well.
For instance,
if you want to run a given code block,
you just hit that little plus sign and
it will begin to run.
There's a little tax you pay at
the very beginning as you go and
get what we call a runtime.
Remember we hit change runtime and you can
switch between a cpu, a gpu, so on and
so forth.
It will kind of give you a virtual
machine somewhere in the cloud and
then begin to run it.
And you can kind of see, for instance,
like what your resources are, so on and
so forth.
So like I am on the T4,
which is available on the free plan, and
I think I don't have the high RAM version
right, so you get like 15 gigs of RAM or.
Yeah, 12 gigs of system RAM,
15 gigs of GPU and
like a quarter terabyte of disk space,
which is pretty nice.
Dustin, are you able to
connect a local gpu?
Yes.
Good questions already.
Where is it?
Yes, connect to a local runtime or
if you have like some Google Compute
engine VM that you want to connect to,
you can use that as well.
But you can, yeah,
hit connect to a local runtime.
You have to do some other like fun
stuff to like spin that server up.
But you can 100%.
So if you have fancy GPUs on your
computer, you're sitting there with
like a rig when you just finished mining a
bunch of crypto and you're ready to like,
you know, switch to the new hotness.
You can also do that as well and
harness all of that power too.
Cool.
The other one or two other just tasting
notes as we're in here is you can,
I think I have turned this
on almost all the time.
Is automatically run the first cell or
section.
Any execution.
That's as you see, the first cell for me
is importing any libraries that we need.
So it will run that first one as well.
Then it will save your outputs.
The one thing I'm going to do for
future viewers is I'm going to
open mine in playground mode.
You do not need to that way I'm not
doing the thing that I have done at
workshops in the past where
I edit everything live and
then have to go clean up
my mess after the workshop.
At one point I will forget to do that and
I will have to clean up my mess.
But it's the beginning of the day and
I still remember my good habits.
Cool, cool, cool.
All right, so like I said before,
you can also hit Run all if you just
wanna run everything, so on and so forth.
But that is the kind of high level
of these Google Colab/Jupyter
notebooks that we're gonna be using.
Other things that come up in my
head are at some point or another,
particularly on the free plan, you will
get yelled at where it's like, hey,
person who's not paying us,
you want to spin up another runtime?
And you already have one running, right?
As we jump from the first notebook to
the second notebook, you can hit this fun
little thing up here, hit manage sessions
and you can close out another session.
Yeah, so if you get yelled on
the free plan and you're like,
now I don't know what to do?
That's what you do.
How do you find out which version of
Python's running in the jupyter notebook.
I mean, you've got a terminal and
you've got the ability to just ask Python.
I know that it's 3.11.
So yeah, there's that as well.
There might even be an interesting
place to go see it, but
I don't remember off the top of my head.
Right, cool, cool, cool.
Yeah, you got a terminal down here.
The other cool thing,
we don't have any yet, but
as variables are declared in memory,
you can see them all here as well.
So you can kind of see the entire
what's going on so on and so forth.
And if you ever break something, this
little guy down here is Toggle Gemini,
where you can be like,
there's two really great things.
There's obviously like,
explain this error.
There's like transform my code, but
there's also explain this code to me.
So I definitely encourage you.
It lives both up here, down there,
lots of other places as well.
Cool, so with that kind of tour,
we probably wanna get into it.